A 26-year-old woman comes to the office because of a 3-day history of lower abdominal pain. She is 18 weeks pregnant by dates. The patient describes the pain as sharp, steady, and radiating across her lower abdomen bilaterally. Last night she developed new nausea and vomiting. She has not been able to keep down any food or drink this morning. She had a normal bowel movement yesterday. She says she felt cold and shivering this morning, followed by feeling warm; however, she did not check her temperature. She denies vaginal bleeding.

General: Patient feels generally weak and ill but was in her usual state of health until 3 days ago. She has gained approximately 5 lbs (2.3 kg) in the pregnancy so far.

Skin: She denies rash.

HEENT: Her mouth feels dry. No headache, nasal congestion, or sore throat.

Pulmonary: She denies cough or shortness of breath.

Cardiovascular: She denies chest pain or palpitations.

Gastrointestinal: She has had a decreased appetite for 1 day and has been unable to keep any food or drink down this morning due to nausea and vomiting. She has not had diarrhea or constipation.

Genitourinary: She reports a frequent urge to urinate and a sensation of incomplete bladder emptying for the past 3 days. No dysuria or hematuria. She is G1P0A0 and has been seeing an obstetrician for all routine visits and testing. No vaginal bleeding.

Musculoskeletal: She reports mild diffuse low back pain. No generalized muscle aches.

Neurologic: Noncontributory

Psychiatric: Noncontributory

Past Medical History

Medical history: Mild intermittent asthma diagnosed in childhood requiring only occasional rescue inhaler use, no hospitalizations for asthma. She is otherwise healthy.

Surgical history: Wisdom teeth removed at age 18.

Medications: Albuterol inhaler as needed, about once a month. Daily prenatal vitamin.

Allergies: No known drug allergies.

Family history: Mother is healthy at age 50. Father is 53 years old with high blood pressure.

Social history: Patient is employed as an engineer. She exercises 3 days/week. She drinks 2 glasses of wine per week but stopped when she found out she was pregnant. She does not smoke or use any illicit drugs. She has not had any recent travel. She is monogamous with 1 male partner.
===
A 42-year-old woman comes to the office for evaluation of significant anemia. She was diagnosed the previous week at an urgent care center during an evaluation for a 2-week history of progressive fatigue and dyspnea on exertion. She had a negative workup for cardiac and pulmonary disease, including normal pulse oximetry, chest x-ray, ECG, and point-of-care cardiac ultrasound. However, at that visit her hemoglobin was discovered to be 7.0 gm/dL (70 gm/L). Today in the office, she is still dyspneic with exertion, is unable to climb a flight of stairs without stopping, but she denies any other current symptoms. She has noted no bloody or dark stools or excessive vaginal bleeding. Her menses are regular, lasting 4 days, and she describes them as "not heavy." She has been told in the past that she had a "low blood count" that her previous doctor attributed to her periods and her vegetarian diet. She was sometimes treated with iron supplements but has had no other treatment or workup. 

General: Patient says she felt fine until about 2 months ago when she had "the flu," which she describes as a low-grade fever, diffuse joint pain, malaise, and a non-pruritic rash primarily over her extremities. She took acetaminophen and her symptoms resolved after 4 days. Except for her fatigue and dyspnea, she has since felt well with normal appetite and no fever or chills.

Skin: No rash or lesions noted.

HEENT: Denies pain or swelling in her neck, no nasal discharge or bleeding.

Pulmonary: Dyspnea climbing stairs, worsening over the past 3 weeks to the point that she cannot climb a flight of steps without pausing to rest. No cough or wheezing.

Cardiovascular: No exertional chest pain, palpitations, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.

Gastrointestinal: No nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain.

Genitourinary: Menses normal, last period 2 weeks prior, normal amount of bleeding for her. No other vaginal bleeding. Urination normal, no visible blood.

Musculoskeletal: No swelling or pain in joints or extremities.

Neurologic: Unremarkable

Psychiatric: Unremarkable

Medical history: History of mild anemia, never evaluated. No COPD, asthma, or other lung disease. No history of coronary artery disease, hypertension, renal disease, cancer, or diabetes.

Surgical history: Laparoscopic cholecystectomy 5 years prior.

Medications: Occasional NSAID for headache or muscle pain.

Allergies: Seasonal rhinitis, no medication allergies.

Family history: Mother, age 65, has a history of "low blood count" of uncertain etiology; father, age 68, has type 2 diabetes mellitus that is controlled with diet and exercise.

Social history: Patient is employed as a primary school teacher and coaches the girls' swimming team. She usually swims a mile or so a day, but lately she has not done so because of her exertional symptoms. She has been a vegetarian for 10 years. She does not drink alcoholic beverages and has never smoked or used recreational drugs. No recent travel. No known exposure to infectious diseases. She is married, and she and her spouse are attempting to conceive. She has an annual flu shot and has had a 2-dose immunization for COVID-19.
===
A 12-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother for a well-child checkup. The patient and his mother both state that the patient has been otherwise well except for occasional mild pain and stiffness in the upper back. Symptoms began gradually about a year ago and are present intermittently. The pain and stiffness do not bother him significantly or limit his activities, and they have never awakened him from sleep. He denies any trauma or overuse. He is not currently playing any organized sports although he is able to be normally active with friends and siblings. 

General: Patient feels well except for occasional upper back pain and stiffness. No fever, chills, or night sweats. No weight loss or change in appetite. He is not yet shaving, and his voice has not yet changed.

Skin: Mild acne, no other rash or lesions.

HEENT: No vision changes, ear pain, hearing changes, neck stiffness, or pain in the throat.

Pulmonary: No shortness of breath or cough.

Cardiovascular: No chest pain or pressure.

Gastrointestinal: No diarrhea, vomiting, or abdominal pain. Normal bowel movement once a day.

Genitourinary: No dysuria or increased urinary frequency.

Musculoskeletal: Positive for intermittent upper back stiffness and discomfort. No joint swelling or discomfort.

Neurologic: No numbness, tingling, or pain running down his arms or legs. No weakness or gait changes. No difficulty controlling bladder or bowels.

Psychiatric: No depression, psychosis, or hyperactivity.


Medical history: Uncomplicated birth, no hospitalizations.

Surgical history: None

Medications: None

Allergies: Penicillin (rash)

Family history: His father had diabetes and hypertension and died when patient was very young. His maternal grandmother died of breast cancer at age 76 years. There is no history of skeletal dysplasia or muscular dystrophy in the family.

Social history: Patient was born at 37 weeks' gestation via spontaneous vaginal delivery and had an uncomplicated postnatal course. He is in age-appropriate grade in school and doing well academically and behaviorally. On interview with the mother outside the room, the patient reports that he feels happy and supported at home with his mother and sisters. Patient reports that he has never tried alcohol, drugs, or cigarettes. He is not sexually active.

The patient's family is from Guinea Bissau but the patient was born and raised in the United States and has not traveled outside the country. No known history of tuberculosis exposure. He is up to date on all vaccinations, and he received an influenza vaccine this year. He eats a normal diet, including fruits and vegetables, and drinks milk daily.
===
A 74-yr-old man comes to the Emergency Department (ED) because of a several-month history of increasing exertional chest pain. He states that after walking a few feet he feels left-sided chest pressure that radiates down his left arm. Lately, the pain has been associated with dyspnea and nausea. The pain is relieved by rest within a few minutes. He saw his primary care physician a few days ago. At that time, he was given a prescription for sublingual nitroglycerin as a therapeutic trial and was scheduled for an outpatient stress test in a few weeks. He comes to the ED today because the episodes have been occurring more frequently and with less exertion. He says today that when he takes the sublingual nitroglycerin, it does relieve his symptoms. 

General: No fevers and chills. No weight loss.

Skin: Noncontributory

HEENT: No nasal congestion or throat pain.

Pulmonary: No cough. No hemoptysis. Dyspnea recently but only with the chest pain.

Cardiovascular: No orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, lower-extremity edema, light-headedness, or palpitations.

Gastrointestinal: Nausea during the chest pain episodes. No vomiting.

Genitourinary: Noncontributory

Musculoskeletal: She has no muscle aches, joint pain, or stiffness.

Neurologic: No syncope. No progressive weakness or loss of sensation.

Psychiatric: Noncontributory

Medical history: Hypertension that is well-controlled on drugs, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and osteoarthritis.

Surgical history: Cholecystectomy and appendectomy.

Medications: Vitamin D, amlodipine 5 mg/day, and fluticasone/salmeterol inhaler. As-needed drugs: albuterol inhaler, tiotropium inhaler, and sublingual nitroglycerin (SLNG).

Allergies: No known drug allergies.

Family history: No history of early myocardial infarction (MI) or stroke in first-degree relatives.

Social history: Attorney working long, stressful hours. Former cigarette smoker with a 40-pack/-yrear history. He quit 1 year ago. No alcohol or IV drug use. No recent long air flights or travel outside the United States. He is separated from his wife.+
===
A 68-yr-old woman comes to the office with her daughter because of a 4-mo history of gradually increasing lethargy and worsening memory. Her daughter is concerned because the mother has stopped remembering whether she has taken her regular medications. The daughter is worried that her mother might not be safe to live on her own. Prior to 4 mo ago, the woman had been very busy with community activities, which she has since stopped, and her daughter had not noticed any memory difficulties. The daughter is not aware of any recent illnesses or injuries. 

General: The patient says she feels tired all the time and is usually cold even now during the summer. She has a poor appetite but has gained 5 kg in weight in the preceding 4 mo despite decreased appetite. No fever, chills, headache, or body aches.

Skin: Her skin has become dry, and her hair is now coarse and sparse. No rash or itching.

HEENT: She reports fullness in her throat, and her daughter has noticed that her mother’s voice has become hoarse and her face appears puffy, particularly around the eyes. No difficulty swallowing.

Pulmonary: The patient reports new exertional shortness of breath and needing to pause after climbing ½ flight of stairs. No cough or wheezing.

Cardiovascular: She used to have occasional palpitations before but has had none for the last 2 mo. She denies chest pain, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.

Gastrointestinal: The patient’s bowel movements have decreased from daily to once every 3 to 4 days when using laxatives. She does not have any abdominal pain or vomiting. Her appetite is decreased.

Genitourinary: Noncontributory

Musculoskeletal: Her ankles and lower legs are more swollen than they used to be. She reports fatigue and leg weakness when climbing stairs or getting up from a chair.

Neurologic: She has become slower at performing daily activities, and extra effort is required. Her daughter has noticed that her mother has trouble remembering recent events, such as whether she has taken her medications. She denies having focal weakness or sensory abnormalities, tremor, or visual symptoms.

Psychiatric: Her mood is depressed and she often stays in bed, not going out of the house for many days.

Medical history: Hypertension diagnosed 10 yr ago and controlled with three antihypertensives. Atrial fibrillation (AF) rate-controlled with bisoprolol; previous admission to hospital with a fast AF complicated with acute left ventricular failure; cardioversion failed to restore sinus rhythm.

Surgical history: Appendectomy at the age of 19 yr, left carpal tunnel syndrome surgery 2 yr ago.

Medications: Bisoprolol 5 mg once/day, ramipril 10 mg once/day, furosemide 40 mg once/day, warfarin 3 mg once/day.

Allergies: No known drug allergies.

Family history: Mother had hypothyroidism and a stroke in her 80s. Father died of metastatic colon cancer.

Social history: She eats a healthy balanced diet, and her only exercise is walking to nearby shops twice a week. She used to work as a receptionist but retired 3 yr ago. She is a nonsmoker and drinks alcohol only occasionally. She has not travelled abroad in the last 3 yr.
===
A 2-yr-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his parents because of a 1-day history of cough and difficulty breathing. The parents state that the boy appeared normal until the previous night when he began coughing shortly after dinner. The cough stopped after about an hour; the child felt better and went to bed. In the morning, the cough returned and he began to have difficulty breathing, which the parents think is worsening. No one else at home is ill. 

General: The child has no fever or malaise, and he was well until the cough began.

Skin: No rash is noted.

HEENT: He does not have sore throat, runny nose, ear pain, difficulty swallowing, or eye discharge or redness.

Pulmonary: The child has been coughing and is short of breath.

Cardiovascular: The child has not had chest pain.

Gastrointestinal: The child has not had abdominal pain, vomiting, or diarrhea. The parents say he did not want to eat breakfast because of the cough and dyspnea.

Genitourinary: Noncontributory

Musculoskeletal: Noncontributory

Neurologic: Noncontributory

Psychiatric: Noncontributory

Medical history: Full-term, normal delivery. The boy has been healthy since birth except for two episodes of wheezing; each required a short course of bronchodilators but no daily treatment.

Surgical history: None

Medications: None

Allergies: None

Family history: Mother has mild, well-controlled asthma; father is healthy.

Social history: The child lives with his mother, father, and pet dog. The child’s vaccinations are up to date.
===
 A 49-yr-old woman comes to the emergency department because of chest pain. She says she was in her usual state of health until the day before, when she awoke at 6 am with the sudden onset of sharp left-sided chest pain. Pain has been constant and radiates to the center of her chest. It is not worsened by exertion, movement, food, activity, or respiration. She also had shortness of breath and chills but no cough, nausea, or diaphoresis. She took 400 mg of naproxen without relief. The pain has persisted, prompting her to come to the emergency department now. She has never had chest pain before this episode and has no known history of cardiac or pulmonary disease. 

General: Chills as noted in History of Present Illness. She thought she had a fever but did not take her temperature.

Skin: Noncontributory

HEENT: No recent URI symptoms.

Pulmonary: As per History of Present Illness.

Cardiovascular: Chest pain as per History of Present Illness. No palpitations or syncope. She has noted dyspnea with climbing stairs since chest pain began; dyspnea resolves quickly with rest and is not worsened by lying flat.

Gastrointestinal: No abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting. Appetite and bowel movements are normal.

Genitourinary: Minimal spotting after recent menses.

Musculoskeletal: She has no current musculoskeletal symptoms, although she has noted intermittent left leg swelling and discomfort for the past year. There is no history of injury or recent immobilization. The last time she had swelling and discomfort in her left leg was about 10 days ago.

Neurologic: Noncontributory

Psychiatric: Noncontributory


Medical history: Menorrhagia due to uterine fibroids, with secondary iron-deficiency anemia; endometriosis; right breast fibroadenoma. No history of blood clots or clotting disorder.

Surgical history: Laparoscopy and lysis of adhesions for endometriosis; tubal ligation; excision of breast fibroadenoma.

Medications: None

Allergies: None

Family history: Mother was recently diagnosed with stage IV colon carcinoma; brother has schizophrenia.

Social history: No tobacco or alcohol use; former cocaine and heroin use (quit both more than 20 yr ago); works for the hospital in the food services department. No recent travel.
===
A 74-yr-old woman is brought to the emergency department by her husband because of an episode of confusion. The day prior to her visit she attended a wedding at which she had "2 or 3" glasses of wine and afterwards felt extremely tired whereby she left early. When she got home, she went straight to bed without even undressing. She awoke about 3 h later and didn’t remember going to bed or that she had just been at a wedding. Both arms were painful when she awoke, and she noticed blood in her mouth. Her husband says she had been "tossing around in bed." She returned to bed and awoke in the morning several hours past her usual time. She and her husband thought these events were very unusual, and although she felt back to normal except for some slight soreness in her arms, she decided to go the emergency department. 


    General: Has otherwise been feeling in her usual state of health. No fever, sweats, or weight change.

    Skin: No recent skin rashes.

    HEENT: Mild discomfort and swelling on left lateral aspect of tongue.

    Pulmonary: No shortness of breath or cough.

    Cardiovascular: No chest pain, palpitations or edema, no difficulty doing her usual activities.

    Gastrointestinal: Chronic constipation which has been stable for years, no abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting.

    Genitourinary: No urinary frequency, hematuria, or dysuria. Episode of urinary incontinence during sleep the prior night. No episodes of urinary incontinence prior to the current episode.

    Musculoskeletal: Mild, diffuse bilateral upper extremity discomfort.

    Neurologic: No headache, no vision changes, no neck stiffness, dizziness, or vertigo. No weakness or loss of sensation.

    Psychiatric: Noncontributory


    Medical history: Chronic constipation; osteoporosis with multiple compression fractures in the lumbar spine.

    Surgical history: Negative

    Medications: Vitamin supplements

    Allergies: None

    Family history: Both parents lived to their 90s and had high blood pressure and dementia. Both died of pneumonia. She has no siblings.

    Social history: She is a retired educator and lives at home with her husband. She does not smoke cigarettes or use illicit drugs. She occasionally drinks a glass of wine at dinner.
===
 A 54-yr-old man comes to the office because of a 3-day history of worsening cough that produces a moderate amount of yellowish, nonbloody sputum. He says the cough causes sharp pain in the right side of his chest, and the cough and pain have been causing difficulty sleeping. He has not had anything like this before. 


    General: Patient felt fine until about 4 days ago. He thinks he has had a fever but did not take his temperature. He had a shaking chill last night that shook the bed and alarmed his wife. He feels quite “run down” and was too sick to go to work today so he came in. Before onset of this illness, he felt fine and was doing all his normal activities. He has been eating normally with no recent weight loss.

    Skin: Has not noticed rash or skin lesions.

    HEENT: Runny nose and mild sore throat began about 4 days ago. Rhinorrhea is clear. He is able to swallow with only mild discomfort. He has not noticed swollen nodes in his neck.

    Pulmonary: He has had dyspnea when climbing stairs since illness began but no dyspnea at rest. He feels vague, continuous “discomfort” in the left side of his chest, and he has a sharp pain with inspiration. He denies wheezing.

    Cardiovascular: There is no exertional chest pain, palpitations, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.

    Gastrointestinal: He has had a poor appetite for several days but is able to eat and drink. He denies reflux symptoms.

    Genitourinary: Noncontributory

    Musculoskeletal: He has right knee pain with exertion. He has not noticed any pedal edema.

    Neurologic: Noncontributory

    Psychiatric: Noncontributory


    Medical history: Hypertension since age 42, well-controlled with medications. Hypercholesterolemia since age 50, poorly controlled with diet. No history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma or other lung disease, coronary artery disease, renal disease, cancer, diabetes, or immunosuppressive disorders.

    Surgical history: Tonsillectomy at age 10 yr; ligament repair of the right knee at age 26.

    Medications:Chlorthalidone 25 mg once/day and enalapril 40 mg once/day for the past 6 yr.

    Allergies: No known drug allergies. No seasonal allergies.

    Family history: Mother is age 80 and has hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and high cholesterol. Father died at age 64 of coronary artery disease (CAD).

    Social history: Patient is employed as a lawyer. He plays squash vigorously twice a week, is poorly compliant with a low-fat diet, and consumes about 6 to 8 alcoholic drinks/wk. He smoked 1 pack of cigarettes/day for 20 yr but quit smoking at age 44; he denies other drug use. His most recent travel was a Mediterranean cruise 8 mo ago; it included land excursions to Turkey, Greece, and Italy. No other recent travel. He has not had any history of recent immobilization. He has no known exposure to anyone with tuberculosis (TB) or other respiratory illness. He has not had unprotected sex with anyone other than his spouse for the past 3 yr. He has had annual flu vaccinations for the past 4 yr.
===
A 62-yr-old man comes to his primary care clinic with the chief complaint of chest pain. He has no pain currently. He first noticed the pain 2 mo ago but attributed it to indigestion. He describes the pain as a pressure sensation in the middle of his chest that does not radiate anywhere else. It seems to come only with exertion and not at rest. He noticed it more last week when he had to shovel snow; he has had no pain since then. He says the pain usually lasts 10 to 15 min and goes away if he takes a break. When present, the pain is not worsened by movement or breathing. The last time he got the pain, he took an aspirin, which he thinks helped. The pain is not associated with shortness of breath, nausea, or diaphoresis. He denies any recent fever, cough, or infectious symptoms. 

General: Patient has generally been feeling fine. Good energy level. Sleeping well.

Skin: No new rashes or skin lesions.

HEENT: No vision changes, ear pain, nasal symptoms, or sore throat.

Pulmonary: No dyspnea with exertion; no cough.

Cardiovascular: No palpitations, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or peripheral edema.

Gastrointestinal: No abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting. Appetite is normal.

Genitourinary: Noncontributory

Musculoskeletal: No recent injury or immobilization.

Neurologic: Noncontributory

Psychiatric: Noncontributory

Medical history: Hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).

Surgical history: Left inguinal hernia repair at age 50.

Medications: Chlorthalidone 25 mg once/day, lisinopril 10 mg once/day, omeprazole 20 mg prn, sildenafil prn.

Allergies: No known drug allergies.

Family history: Father had myocardial infarction (MI) at age 43. Mother has hypertension and type 2 diabetes. No family history of sudden cardiac death.

Social history: Patient is married and works as an accountant. He does not participate in any formal exercise routine. Patient has smoked cigarettes for 25 yr; currently, he smokes 1 pack/day. He drinks 4 to 5 beers/wk. No illicit drug use.
===
 A 47-yr-old woman comes to the office because of an 8-wk history of a cough. She says the cough is never productive, occurs at all times of the day (including at night), and is independent of activity. She is not sure whether she had an upper respiratory tract infection preceding the cough. She does recall that a new neighbor, who is a smoker, moved into a downstairs apartment at the time the cough began. The neighbor frequently smokes outside the patient's apartment window, triggering the cough.

She has not noticed any heartburn or runny nose. One month after the cough started, she noticed pain at the right side of her breastbone occurring with stretching and deep breathing. At that same time, she also noted that she has been wheezing during exertion. She has never had wheezing before. She has had no shortness of breath. 

General: Positive for 5- to 7-lb intentional weight loss via use of a FitBit® activity tracker. No fever, chills, or malaise. Appetite normal.

Skin: No rashes

HEENT: Feels congested at night. No vision or hearing changes.

Pulmonary: Cough and wheezing as per history of present illness.

Cardiovascular: Sharp, right-sided chest pain occurring with stretching, coughing, and deep breathing and lasting a second or two. No chest pain during exertion.

Gastrointestinal: Intermittent heartburn in the past but no recent episodes.

Genitourinary: Noncontributory

Musculoskeletal: Sternal pain as per history of present illness. No edema or pain in extremities.

Neurologic: Noncontributory

Psychiatric: Noncontributory

Medical history: Hypertension, hypothyroidism due to thyroidectomy 12 yr ago for a benign nodule, uterine cancer with hysterectomy 4 yr ago, and bipolar disorder. No known pulmonary or cardiac disease.

Surgical history: Thyroidectomy (12 yr ago), hysterectomy (4 yr ago).

Medications: Losartan, verapamil, levothyroxine, aripiprazole, bupropion, escitalopram, and topiramate.

Allergies: Intolerance to lurasidone (hand tremors) and oxycodone (nausea and vomiting).

Family history: No family history of lung cancer.

Social history: Life-long nonsmoker. Uses alcohol socially. Has never used illicit drugs. Works in a hospital business office. Divorced; no sexual contact for 8 yr. Lives in Maryland. Has not traveled outside the East Coast for 20 yr; has never traveled outside the US. No sick close contacts.

